README.md, before:

# Dymo CUPS printer driver

This repository contains an inofficial copy of Dymo's CUPS printer driver for Linux.

## Authors

* Vladimir Buzuev <vbuzuev@dymo.com>

## Command examples

* print very long text on a tape:
```sh
 lpr -o landscape -o PageSize=24_mm__1___Label__Auto_ docs/test.txt
```

* set printing options specific to the LabelWriter driver
```sh
 lpr -o PageSize=30252_Address -o PrintQuality=Graphics -o PrintDensity=Light docs/test.txt
```

* set printing options specific to the LabelManager driver
```sh
 lpr -o PageSize=Address_Label -o CutOptions=ChainMarks -o LabelAlignment=Right -o TapeColor=1
```

## Supported devices

* DYMO LabelMANAGER 400
* DYMO LabelMANAGER 450
* DYMO LabelMANAGER PC
* DYMO LabelMANAGER PC II
* DYMO LabelManager PnP
* DYMO LabelPOINT 350
* DYMO LabelWriter 300
* DYMO LabelWriter 310
* DYMO LabelWriter 315
* DYMO LabelWriter 320
* DYMO LabelWriter 330
* DYMO LabelWriter 330 Tubo
* DYMO LabelWriter 400
* DYMO LabelWriter 400 Turbo
* DYMO LabelWriter 450
* DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label
* DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Tape
* DYMO LabelWriter 450 Turbo
* DYMO LabelWriter 450 Twin Turbo
* DYMO LabelWriter 4XL
* DYMO LabelWriter DUO Label
* DYMO LabelWriter DUO Tape
* DYMO LabelWriter DUO Tape 128
* DYMO LabelWriter SE450
* DYMO LabelWriter Twin Turbo

## Build instructions

To compile and install source package you will need:
  - recent C++ compiler. We used gcc ver. 3.3.5 & 4.0.1
  - installed CUPS *.h files (cups/cups.h, cups/raster.h)
  - installed CUPS libraries (libcups, libcupsimage)
  
To compile sources run follow commands from the package directory:
```sh
 ./configure
 make
```

To install compiled binaries and data files use command (you have to have root privileges):
```sh
 make install
 ```

## Known Problems

1. Error message "CUPS modeldir <dir> is not existed..."

While running "configure" script tries to determine where CUPS is installed. 
For that it uses 'cups-config' utility if existed or uses default values for the dirs.
If CUPS is installed into different directories you might see the above error message.
To avoid it pass proper directories to "configure" script using environment variables, e.g.
$ cups_datadir='/usr/local/share/cups' cups_serverbindir='/usr/local/lib/cups' ./configure

Default directories for CUPS are '/usr/share/cups' and '/usr/lib/cups'

Commit message:

README.md: Updated build instructions

README.md, after:

# Dymo CUPS printer driver

This repository contains an inofficial copy of Dymo's CUPS printer driver for Linux.

## Authors

* Vladimir Buzuev <vbuzuev@dymo.com>

## Command examples

* print very long text on a tape:
```sh
 lpr -o landscape -o PageSize=24_mm__1___Label__Auto_ docs/test.txt
```

* set printing options specific to the LabelWriter driver
```sh
 lpr -o PageSize=30252_Address -o PrintQuality=Graphics -o PrintDensity=Light docs/test.txt
```

* set printing options specific to the LabelManager driver
```sh
 lpr -o PageSize=Address_Label -o CutOptions=ChainMarks -o LabelAlignment=Right -o TapeColor=1
```

## Supported devices

* DYMO LabelMANAGER 400
* DYMO LabelMANAGER 450
* DYMO LabelMANAGER PC
* DYMO LabelMANAGER PC II
* DYMO LabelManager PnP
* DYMO LabelPOINT 350
* DYMO LabelWriter 300
* DYMO LabelWriter 310
* DYMO LabelWriter 315
* DYMO LabelWriter 320
* DYMO LabelWriter 330
* DYMO LabelWriter 330 Tubo
* DYMO LabelWriter 400
* DYMO LabelWriter 400 Turbo
* DYMO LabelWriter 450
* DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label
* DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Tape
* DYMO LabelWriter 450 Turbo
* DYMO LabelWriter 450 Twin Turbo
* DYMO LabelWriter 4XL
* DYMO LabelWriter DUO Label
* DYMO LabelWriter DUO Tape
* DYMO LabelWriter DUO Tape 128
* DYMO LabelWriter SE450
* DYMO LabelWriter Twin Turbo

## Build instructions

Requirements:
  - GNU Autotools
  - GNU C and C++ compilers
  - CUPS header files (cups/cups.h, cups/raster.h)
  - CUPS libraries (libcups, libcupsimage)

To compile the sources run the following commands:
```sh
 autoscan
 aclocal
 autoconf
 autoheader
 # This is a temporary workaround:
 touch NEWS AUTHORS README ChangeLog
 automake --add-missing
 automake
 ./configure
 make
```

On Linux systems you can alternatively type:
```sh
 ./build.sh
```

To install the compiled binaries and data files use this command (this will require root privileges):
```sh
 make install
 ```

## Known Problems

1. Error message "CUPS modeldir <dir> is not existed..."

While running "configure" script tries to determine where CUPS is installed. 
For that it uses 'cups-config' utility if existed or uses default values for the dirs.
If CUPS is installed into different directories you might see the above error message.
To avoid it pass proper directories to "configure" script using environment variables, e.g.
$ cups_datadir='/usr/local/share/cups' cups_serverbindir='/usr/local/lib/cups' ./configure

Default directories for CUPS are '/usr/share/cups' and '/usr/lib/cups'
